Introduction:
The development of a complex game is a time-consuming task that requires a significant amount of content generation, including terrains, objects, characters, etc. This requires a lot of effort from a designing team. However, you can generate resource saving terrain, characters and more through Procedural Generation. This means that with little to no input, you can program infinite content for your players. PG can be used to create environments (Vandrake, 2020). In this project, I will delve into examples of procedural generation, and create my own procedurally generated landmass simulator in Unity.
Unity is a game engine, designed to make 2D and 3D simulations and games using C#. I will also mention how I will assess my program using user testers. Hopefully with all this information I would be able to create a 2D procedurally generated terrain simulator that passes the criteria’s I set for it
I chose this topic for a couple reasons. Firstly, I was very interested in software and game development and enjoyed learning the different ways programmers tackled issues. I also recently played a game called “No man’s sky” and was amazed with how they not only created procedural terrain, but an entire procedural universe. Finally, I am interested in studying computer science in university and believed that coding an artifact for my extended project qualification may help me to understand how to tackle similar assignments I may be set in university.
I hope my code can be used as the foundation to build an app or a piece of software that will be used to teach students about geography and changes in elevation in real world terrain
